# Week 1 Report

I first spent some time familiarizing myself with the course moodle page and other documents. I then researched different options for what project to do. There was various interesting ideas listed on the course page, and I ultimately decided I wanted to work on a game, since it would be rewarding to be able to create something that I can actually use, and make a bot to play against myself. I decided on the game Connect four, as it was one of my favourite games as a child.

I then familiarized myself with the Minimax algorithm and Alpha beta pruning, which I want to use for this project. I also looked at some Java guides, as I have mainly coded in Python so far. I thought however doing the project in Java would be a great way for me to get better at it, and also chose it because it was the recommended language in the course material.

For the actual project, I set up the repository on GitHub, and created the initial documentation. I am also considering if VSCode, which I have been using for all my coding so far, or another IDE more specific to Java would be better. I will be starting the actual coding work, in particular setting up the UI to be able to play, and a basic version of the main algorithm. I started familiarizing myself with how to do testing in Java, as I have previously only implemented unit tests in Python. I will actually start implementing testing next week, alongside the implemented functionality. 

I think the only thing I have found challenging so far was that the course material is a bit all over the place, with duplicate information on Moodle and Github, and I am not always sure which I should be looking at and whether there are any differences between both that might make me miss out on important information. Also, the fact that it explicitly states on the Moodle that the English information is not as comprehensive as the Finnish made me hesitant, since I do not speak Finnish fluently, and e.g. Google Translate is also not always accurate. Also, with the introductory lecture being given in Finnish, I hope I did not miss out on any important information. There have not been any problems so far, but I am just nervous there might be because of this.

Time spent this week: 5 hours